# Do data better - Onepoint - Do data better | Innovate with AI & more | Architect for Outcomes

Source: https://www.onepointltd.com/do-data-better

_Onepoint - Our experience helps to solve questions related to on-prem or cloud; data strategy or governance; data engineering or analysis, delivering the best possible outcomes. Doing data better._

## Content

- Do data better
- Innovate with AI & more
- Architect for Outcomes

- Search for:Search

Do data better[1]

Innovate with AI & more[2]

Architect for Outcomes[3]

Home[4]

- Cloud data management
- Data strategy & governance
- Analytics & insights
- Onepoint Springboard™ workshop on Data

[Cloud data management](#big-data)

[Data strategy & governance](#data-strategy)

[Analytics & insights](#analytics-insights)

[Onepoint Springboard™ workshop on Data](#onepoint-springboard)

Every organisation pursues creating the best platform for their data, one that is secured, compliant and serves all of their business needs precisely on time. Building such a platform requires insights into the ‘what’, ‘why’ and ‘how’ of data. Data has to be appropriately tailored, according to specific needs, with the correct set of technologies and methodologies.

The data experts at Onepoint are well versed with the ‘what’, ‘why’ and ‘how’ of data. This ensures the demands are met by the architecture, design and implementation of a data platform. Our experience helps to solve questions related to on-prem or cloud; data strategy or governance; data engineering or analysis, delivering the best possible outcomes. Doing data better.

State-of-the-art technologies are used for the purpose. Our expertise span over a wide range of technologies, some of them being Boomi, Talend, Starburst, Gigaspaces, Snowflake, Cloud data management tools and so on.

## Cloud data management

With the increasing pace of technology, there is a rise in producers and consumers of digital data. An enterprise has to continually adjust to the volume, variety and changing needs of the data being produced and consumed, which in turn demands a quick, easy, scalable and cost-effective way of managing data, to enable focus on driving business.

Get in touch with an expert

[Get in touch with an expert](/contact-us/)

Cloud technologies can help enterprises to create auto-managed and auto-scalable platforms. A cloud data platform provides elasticity by adjusting resources when the volume of data increases. It offers a range of tools to handle a variety of data. It provides ease and speed in the deployment of data processes by eliminating the redundant tasks of setting up or managing infrastructure and services. It also lessens the time taken to adopt new technology. All of this, combined with security and cost-effectiveness makes cloud data management ideal for the current times.

Get in touch with an expert

[Get in touch with an expert](/contact-us/)

We can help with services like –

- Data architecting and designing for the cloud
- Data migration to the cloud
- Data integration pipelines in cloud
- Data security and governance in cloud
- Data analytics on the cloud
- AI for data management

Get in touch with an expert

[Get in touch with an expert](/contact-us/)

The diversification of enterprise applications has led to data collection and processing across teams and geographies. Consumers of data have also evolved from just being IT experts to special data analysts and business users. These factors tend to create data silos and inconsistencies and hence the need for introducing some rules around data management. Data privacy regulations like GDPR further add to the need of applying proper strategies and governance around the lifecycle of enterprise data.

Get in touch with an expert

[Get in touch with an expert](/contact-us/)

Data Hub architecture is the answer to modern data requirements – eliminating redundancy of data through sharing and integration points for operational and analytical data, generated by various applications. It can drive standard models and consistent governance across systems and processes, thereby increasing the transparency of data flows amongst multiple users and roles of an enterprise. It can also help in areas like data quality, deduplication, and security.

Get in touch with an expert

[Get in touch with an expert](/contact-us/)

We provide services related to Data Hub architecture –

- Data modelling & design
- Master data management
- Data discovery and cataloguing
- Data security policies

Get in touch with an expert

[Get in touch with an expert](/contact-us/)

## Analytics & insights

Having access to a rapidly growing amount of data counts for nothing unless you can quickly interpret the data in a meaningful and efficient way, and extract valuable insights that help a business to move forward in all critical areas, for example, the ability to have a 360°understanding of the customer.

Get in touch with an expert

[Get in touch with an expert](/contact-us/)

Providing data visualisation tools to build dashboards, histograms, charts, etc., along with enabling BI (Business Intelligence) allows us to explore the data fully. This helps businesses better understand patterns, trends, outliers and changes over time, and create insights to gain competitive advantages.

Get in touch with an expert

[Get in touch with an expert](/contact-us/)

We can help with services like:

- Architectureand designing BI solutions (including roadmap)
- Domain-specific analytic solutions (e.g.,Customer forecasting, Financial reporting, etc.)
- Monitoring and setup threshold alert notifications
- Automating analysis reporting

Get in touch with an expert

[Get in touch with an expert](/contact-us/)

## Start your

journey with a
Onepoint
Springboard™
Data workshop

Explore your data challenges — and opportunities — with our senior advisors and technologists during a half-day structured workshop held at our offices in London, or virtually.

These workshops are a simplification of our Design Thinking (and Doing!) approach, part of our Rapid Value Method that is designed to drive towards your chosen business outcomes quickly.

With a multi-disciplinary team from your organisation, we uncover your data challenges and opportunities, explore ideas and priorities, and outline how to prove a chosen concept quickly. If it makes sense as a next step, a rapid prototype (PoC) can potentially be co-funded by Onepoint.

There’s no obligation to continue the journey with us after the workshop. A fresh, independent perspective on innovative options, approaches, and recommendations are yours to keep!

Outcomes & outputs

The key outcomes are to develop a better understanding of your data challenges and opportunities and to establish a shortlist of prioritised ideas. You will also understand where Onepoint can add value to quickly get you to your desired business outcomes.

Outputs of the workshop will be a number of big ideas or use cases; a prioritised shortlist with potential solution options, and an outline action plan to test real business value.

Typical agenda

Typical attendees

Ask us about a custom workshop

[Ask us about a custom workshop](/onepoint-springboard/#springboard-contact)

## Client stories

A gap analysis of current and target architecture, for an IT transformation programme aimed at monetizing excess network capacity.

[Learn more](/case-studies/nrt-quicksilver-case-study/)

Built buyer-behaviour predictive data models, sales forecasting and customer propensity models by analysing sales data

[Learn more](/case-studies/frontline-case-study/)

Facilitated a smooth transition and exit from its parent technical system, application and services

Successfully delivered the largest ever systems integration programme undertaken by CPW

[Learn more](/case-studies/carphone-warehouse-case-study/)

Used value stream process to assess existing architecture and define the roadmap to set up effective architecture capabilities..

[Learn more](/case-studies/sita-aero/)

Produced the architecture content meta model, helped shape the application integration strategy and defined the high level conceptual data model.

[Learn more](/case-studies/travis-perkins/)

Multiple projects to improve Customer Led Forecasting, Aftermarket Inventory Finance & Operations Reporting and Power BI assistance

[Learn More](/client-stories/meggitt-case-study/)

A next gen data platform to improve data accuracy, timeliness and quality in a multi-million dollar data strategy and governance project

[Learn more](/client-stories/flight-centre-case-study/)

More client stories

[More client stories](/client-stories/)

## Add Your Heading Text Here

## Partners & Platforms

- What we doDo data betterInnovate with AI & moreArchitect for OutcomesSpringboard™ WorkshopOnepoint Labs

Do data better

[Do data better](/do-data-better)

Innovate with AI & more

[Innovate with AI & more](/innovate-with-ai-more/)

Architect for Outcomes

[Architect for Outcomes](/architect-for-outcomes/)

Springboard™ Workshop

[Springboard™ Workshop](/onepoint-springboard/)

Onepoint Labs

[Onepoint Labs](/onepoint-labs/)

- ResourcesOnepoint Data Wellness™ SuiteOnepoint TechTalkOnepoint Oneness

Onepoint Data Wellness™ Suite

[Onepoint Data Wellness™ Suite](/data-wellness/)

Onepoint TechTalk

[Onepoint TechTalk](/techtalk)

Onepoint Oneness

[Onepoint Oneness](/oneness/)

- About usDiscover OnepointClient storiesCareerContact us

Discover Onepoint

[Discover Onepoint](/discover-onepoint/)

Client stories

[Client stories](/client-stories/)

Career

[Career](/career-opportunities/)

Contact us

[Contact us](/contact-us/)

© Copyright 2025 Onepoint Consulting Ltd| Terms| Privacy notice

[| Terms](/policies/)

[| Privacy notice](/policies/privacy-policy/)

## Sources

[1] Do data better: https://www.onepointltd.com/do-data-better
[2] Innovate with AI & more: https://www.onepointltd.com/innovate-with-ai
[3] Architect for Outcomes: https://www.onepointltd.com/architect-for-outcomes/
[4] Home: https://www.onepointltd.com

## Metadata

- URL: https://www.onepointltd.com/do-data-better
- Last Scraped: 2025-03-06 15:54:11
- Content Type: Web Page
